Ida.adjivon/docs 9007 - User Profiles (#28998)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/product_analytics/segmentation/_index.md

---

> title: Analyzing users and segments

Reviewer: Make sure you update this in the nav yaml file too.

> description: Analyze and understand specific groups or segments of your user base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Analyze and understand individual users and segments of your user base.
```

Last OS Name
: `type:string` <br> The operating system of the user's last session (for example: Windows, iOS).

First OS Version
: `type:string` <br> The OS version of the user's first session.

Last OS Version
: `type:string` <br> The OS version of the user's last session.

<!-- #### Browser related attributes  -->
First Browser Name
: `type:string` <br> The browser used in the user's first session (for example: Chrome, Safari).

Last Browser Name
: `type:string` <br> The browser used in the user's last session (for example: Chrome, Safari).

First Browser Version
: `type:string` <br> The browser version from the user's first session.

Last Browser Version
: `type:string` <br> The browser version from the user's last session.

{{% /collapse-content %}} 
<br>

### How profiles are sourced

User profiles are sourced from RUM events using `usr.id` as the aggregating attribute. 

The RUM SDK allows you to identify users by setting attributes such as User ID, Name, and Email (`usr.id`, `usr.name`, and `usr.email`). These attributes are then used to populate users onto the User Profiles page. 

> ### Navigating the user profiles page 
> The User Profiles page allows you to see information on an individual user and correlate this to the group. Select an individual user from the list to see details on their usage, including their most visited pages, frequent actions, and a history of their sessions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Navigating the user profile details page 
The User Profile details page shows information on an individual user. Select an individual user from the list to see details on their usage, including their most visited pages, frequent actions, and a history of their sessions. 
```
I think this is talking about the sub-page, right, not the main User Profiles page?

## Overview

> Analyze and understand specific groups or segments of your user base using the [User Profile][3] and the [Segments][1] features. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analyze and understand individual users or segments (groups based on common characteristics) of your user base using the [User Profiles][3] and the [Segments][1] features. 
```

> The User Profiles page lists your available product users. You can **list**, **search**, **sort**, and **filter** on these users to create a list of these key users. You can use the [user profile attributes](#user-profile-attributes) to filter on the users you want, or [create a segment](#build-a-segment), to better analyze and understand their usage of your product. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The User Profiles page lists data about your product's users. You can **search**, **sort**, and **filter** this list to find key users. You can use the [user profile attributes](#user-profile-attributes) to filter on the users you want, or [create a segment](#build-a-segment), to better analyze and understand usage of your product across a group. 
```

> The segments page includes a list of all of the segments you have created --- you can also create a segment from this page. Segmenting helps you to focus on some of your users based on various characteristics and behaviors in order to uncover valuable insights, identify trends, and make data-driven decisions that will optimize your product and user experience. For example, you can segment users by purchase amount, active users in a given country, users in a trial, or users in a trial who then converted to a paying organization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The segments page includes a list of all of the segments you have created. You can also create a segment from this page. Segmenting helps you to focus on some of your users based on various characteristics and behaviors in order to uncover valuable insights, identify trends, and make data-driven decisions that will optimize your product and user experience. For example, you can segment users by purchase amount, active users in a given country, users in a trial, or users in a trial who then converted to a paying organization. 
```

> Follow the content list here to navigate to: 
> 
> - **[User Profiles and their usage:](#user-profiles)**
>   - [User profile attributes](#user-profile-attributes)
>   - [How profiles are sourced](#how-profiles-are-sourced)
>   - [Navigating the user profile page](#navigating-the-user-profile-page)
> 
> - **Segments - how to build and use them:**
>   - [Building a segment using your profiles](#build-a-segment)
>   - [Using the segments you created](#leverage-segments-across-product-analytics)
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
The right-nav already provides this, automatically. We tend to not duplicate this except in extreme circumstances (which this doesn't appear to be)

## User profiles 

> The [User Profiles][3] page allows you to track and analyse the behavioral patterns of key users. You can scope down to specific users' behavioral data to help inform your decisions on product optimization and feature adoption. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [User Profiles][3] page allows you to track and analyze the behavioral patterns of key users. You can scope down to specific users' behavioral data to help inform your decisions on product optimization and feature adoption. 
```

{{< img src="product_analytics/segmentation/userprofiles_PANA.png" alt="A view of the User profile page.">}}

> <div class="alert" style="background: #7757D3">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert" style="background: #f2ecfc">
```

> <h3 class="text-white">Example!</h3> <h3 class="text-black">FILTERING</h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<h3 class="text-black">Example: See users who dropped before buying</h3>
```

> <p class="text-white">With the filtering capability on the User Profiles page, you can determine which users almost bought an item but dropped before checking out. <br><br> You can use the <code>Last Seen</code> <code>Last Seen Application</code> attributes and specify the sessions that reached <code>Cart</code> but dropped before reaching the <code>click on CHECKOUT</code> step. You have the option to also select the <code>Device Type</code> to further narrow this down.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="text-black">With the filtering capability on the User Profiles page, you can determine which users almost bought an item, but dropped before checking out. <br><br> Use the <code>Last Seen</code> and <code>Last Seen Application</code> attributes and specify the sessions that reached <code>Cart</code> but dropped before reaching the <code>click on CHECKOUT</code> step. Optionally, select the <code>Device Type</code> to further narrow this down.</p>
```

{{< img src="product_analytics/segmentation/almost-bought_PANA.png" alt="A view of the User profile page.">}}

</div>
<br>

### User profile attributes

> The User Profile page includes a list of attributes to help you better segment your users. You can conduct a full-text search on `username` or `email`, sort, and filter based on these attributes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each user profile on the page has attributes to help you better segment your users. You can conduct a full-text search on `username` or `email`, plus sort and filter based on any of these attributes:
```

{{% collapse-content title="List of user profile attributes" level="h5" expanded=true id="id-for-anchoring" %}}

<!-- #### User attributes  -->
User ID `REQUIRED`
: `type:string` <br> A unique user identifier.<br> 

User Email
: `type:string` <br> The user's email address.

User Name
: `type:string` <br> The user's full name.

<!-- #### Time based attributes  -->
First Seen
: `type:timestamp` <br> The date of the user's first session.

Last Seen
: `type:timestamp`  <br> The date of the user's most recent session.

<!-- #### application based attributes  -->
First Seen Application
: `type:string`  <br> The ID of the first application the user accessed.

Last Seen Application
: `type:string`  <br> The ID of the last application the user accessed.

<!-- #### Geo based attributes  -->
First City
: `type:string` <br> The city of the user's first session.

Last City
: `type:string` <br> The city of the user's last session.

First Seen Country 

> : `type:string` <br> The ISO code of the country for the user's first session. <br> _(The country's code is saved in the back end and the country's name is displayed in the UI)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: `type:string` <br> The ISO code of the country for the user's first session. The country's code is saved in the backend and the country's name is displayed in the UI.
```

Last Seen Country

> : `type:string` <br> The ISO code of the country for the user's last session. <br> _(The country's code is saved in the back end and the country's name is displayed in the UI)_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: `type:string` <br> The ISO code of the country for the user's last session. The country's code is saved in the backend and the country's name is displayed in the UI.
```

First Region
: `type:string` <br> The region of the user's first session.

Last Region
: `type:string` <br> The region of the user's last session.

<!-- #### Device related attributes  -->
First Device Type

> : `type:string` <br> The device used in the user's first session (_for example: desktop, tablet_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: `type:string` <br> The device used in the user's first session (for example: desktop, tablet).
```

Last Device Type

> : `type:string` <br> The device used in the user's last session (_for example: desktop, tablet_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: `type:string` <br> The device used in the user's last session (for example: desktop, tablet).
```

<!-- #### OS related attributes  -->
First OS Name

> : `type:string` <br> The operating system of the user's first session (_for example: Windows, iOS_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: `type:string` <br> The operating system of the user's first session (for example: Windows, iOS).
```

Last OS Name

> : `type:string` <br> The operating system of the user's last session (_for example: Windows, iOS_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: `type:string` <br> The operating system of the user's last session (for example: Windows, iOS).
```

First OS Version
: `type:string` <br> The OS version of the user's first session.

Last OS Version
: `type:string` <br> The OS version of the user's last session.

<!-- #### Browser related attributes  -->
First Browser Name

> : `type:string` <br> The browser used in the user's first session (_for example: Chrome, Safari_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: `type:string` <br> The browser used in the user's first session (for example: Chrome, Safari).
```

Last Browser Name

> : `type:string` <br> The browser used in the user's last session (_for example: Chrome, Safari_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: `type:string` <br> The browser used in the user's last session (for example: Chrome, Safari).
```

First Browser Version
: `type:string` <br> The browser version from the user's first session.

Last Browser Version
: `type:string` <br> The browser version from the user's last session.

{{% /collapse-content %}} 
<br>

### How profiles are sourced

User profiles are sourced from RUM events using `usr.id` as the aggregating attribute. 

The RUM SDK allows you to identify users by setting attributes such as User ID, Name, and Email (`usr.id`, `usr.name`, and `usr.email`). These attributes are then used to populate users onto the User Profiles page. 

### Navigating the user profile page 

> The User Profile page allows you to see information on individual users and correlate this to the group. You can use full-text search, filter, and sort through your user profiles. You can select an individual user's profile to see more detail on their usage, including their most visited pages, frequent actions, and a history of their sessions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The User Profile page allows you to see information on an individual user and correlate this to the group. Select an individual user from the list to see details on their usage, including their most visited pages, frequent actions, and a history of their sessions. 
```
